SOURCE: https://catalog.uopeople.edu/ug_term1_item/computer-science/courses-in-computer-science

Courses in Computer Science

Introduction to Computer Science
This course is designed to provide students with a foundational understanding of key computer science
principles such as an exploration of diverse topics including number systems, logic gates, operating systems,
computer networks, security, programming fundamentals, and different aspects of the field of computer
science. With a structured approach and a balanced blend of theory and practical insights, this course
endeavors to lay robust groundwork for aspiring computer scientists, fostering their proficiency and insight
across this dynamic discipline.
Course Code: CS 1111
Prerequisites: None
Credits: 3

Programming Fundamentals
This course covers the basics of computer programming and provides a foundation for further learning
in this area. No previous computer programming knowledge is required to finish this course. The
course uses the Python programming language which is very simple and straightforward. The course
also covers abstract concepts which can be applied to almost any programming language, and students
are encouraged to pay attention to these, since the way of thinking like a programmer is the most
valuable lesson they will learn. (Students with formal training in the Python language may petition to
waive this requirement.)
Course Code: CS 1101
Prerequisites: None
Credits: 3

Programming 1
This introductory course teaches the fundamental concepts of programming languages by use of the
popular Java language. The topics cover fundamental principles of programming, including data types,
program control and decisions, loops, string manipulations, procedures, arrays, software testing, and
debugging.
Course Code: CS 1102
Prerequisites: CS 1101
Credits: 3

Programming 2
This course builds on the Introduction to Programming 1 course and teaches a more highly developed
Java programming language with features beyond the basic concepts covered in the first programming
course. A large part of the course will be devoted to more advanced building blocks such as recursion,
linked data structures, and Java's Collection Framework. In addition to this, students learn about
designing and coding complex, robust, and efficient programs, and are introduced to a professional
programming tool: the Eclipse Integrated Development Environment.
Course Code: CS 1103
Prerequisites: CS 1102
Credits: 3

Digital Electronics & Computer Architecture
This comprehensive course covers digital electronics, logic design, computer arithmetic, memory systems,
programmable logic devices, and computer architecture. Students will be able to explain the principles of
digital circuits and logic. We will use an online hardware simulator to actually “build” a computer and develop
an assembler from the ground using concepts we will learn in class. Topics include number systems, Boolean
logic, combinational and sequential circuits, computer arithmetic, memory hierarchies, and CPU (Central
processing unit) design. By course completion, students will be equipped to contribute to the field of digital
design, with skills in circuit design and microprocessor understanding.
Course Code: CS 1105
Prerequisites: None
Credits: 3

Databases 1
This course introduces the fundamental concepts necessary for designing, using and implementing
database systems. We stress the fundamentals of database modeling and design, relational theory, and
the Structured Query Language.
Course Code: CS 2203
Prerequisites: None
Credits: 3

Communications and Networking
This course will introduce the basic concepts of communication networks, including the OSI model and
different types of communication protocols, including the Internet Protocol (TCP/IP protocol). The
course will also cover the key concepts and structures of the Internet. Throughout the course, we will
mainly be focusing on the two most prevalent reference models of network definition, OSI and TCP/IP.
Course Code: CS 2204
Prerequisites: None
Credits: 3

Web Programming 1 (Proctored course)
This course introduces students to fundamental concepts and issues surrounding software
development for programs that operate on the web and the internet such as static and dynamic
content, dynamically served content, web development processes, and security.
Course Code: CS 2205
Prerequisites : None
Credits: 3

Operating Systems 1 (Proctored course)
This course provides an applied introduction to commercial operating systems. It is intended for
intermediate students who have basic programming skills. Key concepts of computer systems and
operating systems are introduced, as well as the communications and linkages associated with
computer systems. Operating systems that are introduced include Microsoft Windows and UNIX/Linux.
Course Code: CS 2301
Prerequisites: CS 1103
Credits: 3

Software Engineering 1
This course focuses on the engineering process requirements, including identification of stakeholders,
requirements elicitation techniques such as interviews and prototyping, analysis fundamentals,
requirements specification, and validation. Course topics will include the use of models (State-
oriented, Function-oriented, and Object-oriented), documentation for Software Requirements
(Informal, semi-formal, and formal representations), structural, informational, and behavioral
requirements; non-functional requirements, and the use of requirements repositories to manage and
track requirements through the life cycle.
Course Code: CS 2401
Prerequisites: None
Credits: 3

Data Structures (Proctored course)
This course introduces the fundamental concepts of data structures and the algorithms that proceed
from them. Although this course has a greater focus on theory than application, the assignments,
examples, and cases introduced throughout the course help to bridge the gap between theoretical
concepts and real-world problem solving. We will be using a software tool that will enhance our
understanding of the operation and function of the data structures and algorithms explored
throughout the course by visually animating examples of data structures and algorithms so that we can
understand their operation. Key topics within this course will include recursion, fundamental data
structures (including stacks, queues, linked lists, hash tables, tress, and graphs), and the basics of
algorithmic analysis.
Course Code: CS 3303
Prerequisites: CS 1102
Credits: 3

Analysis of Algorithms
This course builds on knowledge of elementary algorithm analysis gained in Data Structures to further
analyze the efficiency of algorithms for sorting, searching, and selection. The course will also introduce
algorithm design techniques.
Course Code: CS 3304
Prerequisites: CS 3303
Credits: 3

Web Programming 2 (Proctored course)
This course builds on the concepts and issues discussed in Web Programming 1 surrounding software
development for programs that operate on the web and the Internet. Existing and emerging web
development topics to be covered include web applications, web services, enterprise web
development, markup languages, and server-side programming.
Course Code: CS 3305
Prerequisites: CS 2205
Credits: 3

Databases 2 (Proctored course)
This course will cover server database management, configuration and administration, security
mechanisms, backup and recovery, transact SQL Programming, and an introduction to database web-
application development.
Course Code: CS 3306
Prerequisites: CS 2203
Credits: 3

Operating Systems 2 (Proctored Course)
This course builds on principles learned in Operating Systems 1 to approach complex computer
operating system topics such as networks, parallel computing, remote procedure call, concurrency,
transactions, shared memory, message passing, scale, naming, and security.
Course Code: CS 3307
Prerequisites: CS 2301
Credits: 3

Information Retrieval
This course covers the storage and retrieval of unstructured digital information. Topics include
automatic index construction, retrieval models, textual representations, efficiency issues, search
engines, text classification, and multilingual retrieval.
Course Code: CS 3308
Prerequisites: CS 3303
Credits: 3

Systems and Application Security
This course introduces students to various information security concepts for computer networks and
information systems. Students will learn how to recognize cybersecurity threats, vulnerabilities of computer
networks and information systems, and select appropriate cybersecurity models to mitigate and/or prevent
security breaches to ensure continuous business operations.
Course Code: CS 3340
Prerequisites: CS 2204
Credits: 3

Big Data
This course introduces students to the fundamental concepts of Big Data through hands-on exercises and the
use of various tools. The course focuses on practice over theory and the fundamental concepts of Big Data,
including components of the big data ecosystem, distributed batch processing, distributed databases, and real-
time processing.
Course Code: CS 3440
Prerequisites: CS 3303
Credits: 3

Comparative Programming Languages (Proctored Course)
This course focuses on the organization of programming languages, emphasizing language design
concepts and semantics. This course will explore the study of language features and major
programming paradigms, with a special emphasis on functional programming.
Course Code: CS 4402
Prerequisite: CS 1103
Credits: 3

Software Engineering 2
This course addresses more advanced topics in software engineering. Topics include the study of
project planning, techniques for data-oriented design, object-oriented design, testing and quality
assurance, and computer-aided software engineering.
Course Code: CS 4403
Prerequisites: CS 2401
Credits: 3

Advanced Networking and Data Security
This course explores the basic components and design principles of advanced broadband networks
(wireline and wireless), exploring how they enable essential services such as mobility, and secure data
storage, processing and transmission. This course will also introduce the student to emerging issues
facing organizations considering implementing cloud computing services and mobility to enabling
worker productivity. Students will also be exposed to the basic pillars of network security (IA) and
protecting individual privacy.
Course Code: CS 4404
Prerequisites: CS 2204
Credits: 3

Mobile Applications
The course explores concepts and issues surrounding information system applications to real-time
operating systems and wireless networking systems.
Course Code: CS 4405
Prerequisites: CS 2205
Credits: 3

Computer Graphics
This course explores graphics applications and systems. Topics to be covered include the basic
structure of interactive systems, implementation of packages, distributed architectures for graphics,
and the representation of surfaces.
Course Code: CS 4406
Prerequisite: CS 1103
Credits: 3

Data Mining and Machine Learning (Proctored course)
This course presents an introduction to current concepts in machine learning, knowledge discovery,
and data mining. Approaches to the analysis of learning algorithm performance will also be discussed
and applied.
Course Code: CS 4407
Prerequisite: CS 3303
Credits: 3

Artificial Intelligence
This course will cover current concepts and techniques in artificial intelligence, including “reasoning”,
problem solving, and search optimization.
Course Code: CS 4408
Prerequisites: CS 4407
Credits: 3
